good morning today's activity will be
fabricating hour whitening trays we have
our model that we have poured and
trimmed this model was a horseshoe pour
that was inverted and we've done a
slight trim we want to use a model with
a limited base for our whitening tray
fabrication so part of the equipment
that we use for our fabrication of our
whitening tray is a vacuform this is our
vacuum form you need to have caution
around it because it has a heater and
gets very hot so you you can run the
risk of getting burns this is at the top
is where we have the heat gets very hot
so we don't want to be touching the top
of this piece of equipment you're going
to be using our handles to slide away
this is the frame in which we put our
resin sheets a six by six resin sheet
gets placed and perfectly centered if
it's not centered correctly and we pull
down to fabricate our trade it will miss
shape and we will not get the tray foam
that we're looking for how this works is
you place through resin inside centre it
pull down the frame almost like it's a
picture frame and then there's this
little black button lift up
when you seal the frame into place we're
going to pull this off like so we want
to make sure that our base is flat and
that we have a nice dry model we don't
want to be putting the resin over a wet
model we won't get the adherence to the
model and a good seal once we've pulled
the frame up to the top we're going to
use our heat source to heat the resin
and how we do that is we pull it over
and center it over our framed resin
sheet there okay so as you can see our
resin sheet is beginning to soften and
start to droop down we're looking for
about one inch of droop before we are
going to switch on our vacuum we're
going to put on a vacuum
we pulled down a vacuum form and we kept
the vacuum on for 30 seconds to allow
the resin sheet to form over our model
we want to make sure that we don't burn
ourselves because it is going to be a
very hot unit at this time so after 30
seconds you want to wait just a few more
seconds to release your frame and then
you just peel this off like so and
feeling sheet is cooled slightly and
we're going to now just peel this right
off all models
you want to peel it off right away this
will show you we had a delay in getting
this separated for filming purposes only
so you can see that what happens is that
some of the plaster actually does adhere
into the acrylic so we wouldn't want to
give this to patient they're paying a
lot of money for this product so we want
to make sure we give them a very nice
professional product so when this is
done what we're going to use this use
our scissors in our top bins and we're
going to go ahead and take most of the
excess off and then we are going to trim
within one to two millimeters of the
gingival margin of our tray so it looked
a little more similar to this